Welcome back in this lecture we're going to go through an example solution for that database project
adding in owners to our actual Web site.
Let's get started.
OK.
I'm going to start with the actual adoption site thought Pif file.
I will scroll down to where I have my models and I'm going to add in a model for an owner class.
Well I'm going to zoom in just a little bit here so you can see this better will say class owner.
And then we're going to inherit from D-B model and we can give her own table name if we want say a table
name is equal to owners.
Then each owner is going to have a unique ID.
If we call them and they will say the integer type and this will be a primary key.
So the primary key equal to true then I will say name is equal to D-B column and we're going to say
divi text.
And then finally we need to actually set up the relationship between owner and puppy.
So we do this by editing both classes.
I'll start off with puppy.
Remember we're treating this as a one to one relationship.
So I will say the puppies have an owner call them and it's a relationship.
So say a relationship owner and the back reference for the other owner class is just going to be puppy
and since it's a one to one relationship we say use list is equal to false.
And now that we've set up the relationship in the puppy class I can now say we have a puppy ID column
for the owner and we'll stick that equal to a column and inside of this column it's going to be an integer.
Now we're going to connect it to the foreign key
D-B the foreign key and we're going to pasan puppies the ID.
Again what we're doing here is connecting the owner put the ID column to have the relationship.
Let's make sure we spell integer right here.
The real integer to have the correct relationship between the puppy owner column and the owner puppie
ID column.
Once we've done that we can go ahead and add in that method for owner.
Say if it they'll take self and then create an owner.
You give the owner a name and then you also assign a puppy to them.
And then hear will say self-taught name is equal to name and self-taught puppy ID is equal to puppy
ID.
And then let's add a representation of our actual model here and we'll say return owner name say self-taught
name
and now that we've had a good representation of our owner let's adjust a representation of a puppy to
adjust for whether or not they're assigned an owner yet and we're going to do this just like we did
in a previous lecture will say if softball owner return let's say puppy name is self-taught.
Name and they will say.
And the owner is also a self-taught owner name
and then will say else.
And in that case we'll return the puppy name but will say and no owner assigned yet.
All right so those are the main changes we need to do to our adoption site.
Again we're adding a new column to puppy it's an owner and it's going to be a relationship with owner.
The back reference for the owner is this puppy class and then we say use list is equal to false because
it's a one to one relationship.
Now we want to make sure all these changes actually occur in our database.
So I'll start off by saying flask D-B.
And if you're starting for brand new set of files where you don't have the migrations yet you're going
to need to say flask could be in it.
But I've already done that.
You only need to run that once if you already have your migrations folder ready to go.
In our case we'll say flask D.B and I'm going to migrate and I'll get my message to say added owners
run that and then you should see some commands after just a little bit of time.
So it looks like we have those migration files.
Now let's actually apply the changes by saying flask.
DBI upgrade.
Hit enter and now we should have owners successfully in our database.
Once you've done that let's create a view and a form that lets you add new owners to the database.
And when you add these owners we can also connect them to be a puppy with a puppy ID.
So it's kind of up to you whether you want to first focus on the same HMO file or focus first on the
actual view function.
I tend to focus more on my Python and then connect it to the HTL.
So let's go if that route will create a new view.
So we have index at pup list up and then delete the pup.
How about right below the index.
We create a new view for adding an owner will say appro and I will say this goes to add underscore owner
and since there will be a form on this page to add an owner will say methods is equal to gets and post
once than that we're going say the chef and owner and this function is going to be really similar to
add a pup except something we need to do save form is equal to.
And so far I have a forum for adding puppies and the form for the little puppies but I don't have a
forum for adding owners.
So let's quickly go to our forms of Pi file and adjust for that.
So we'll come over to forms that pi.
I have an ad form a delete form what I'm going to do now is create an add owner form we'll just say
class add owner form we inherit from flask form and an owner is going to need a name the puppy ID and
then just a submit button.
So say name is equal to a String Field name of owner then we'll say pup underscore ID is equal to an
integer fields will say integer field and say Id of puppie.
And then finally we'll just have that user submit.
So say submit is equal to a submit field and we'll say add owner.
OK so now that we create or add or form what I'm going to do is back over an adoption site I'm going
to study here.
But before I do that actually to import it from forms up PI.
So up here where we said from forms we've imported add form and delete form.
So now we're going to tack on an owner form and then it can come down here and inside my own review
I'll say form is equal to add owner form.
So create an instance of an owner form.
Now I could just go through checking it and then adding the owner to our database.
We'll see if the form is valid when you click submit and when to grab the name of that owner by saying
form name data can zoom in just a little bit here and then I'm going to grab the pop ID by saying Form
pop underscore ID and grab the data from that one and then add that new owner to the database.
So we'll say this new owner is equal to an owner model where we pass in the name and the pump ID number
and then we'll say D-B session.
I'm going to add a new owner and then we'll commit those changes will say D-B session come in.
Once you've added a new owner we should redirect them to the list page.
So I will say return a redirect that your L4 and will say list pup and then the outside return.
That's just going to be the template we end up adding for owners.
So say add owner T.M. and we'll pass in this form equals to form and you probably noticed that we yet
don't have an ad over that age.
Tim L we have an ad pup or just an ad HMO but we haven't had a separate template for just adding owners.
So let's create one.
We'll come over to templates create a new file we'll call add underscore owner the HTL to make sure
it matches what we wrote here and rendered template.
I'm going to save that now under an owner.
Well we need to do is set up the form and then we also want to extend from our base class that way we
all have the same stylings.
So we're going to do here.
We'll start off with extends from based on each T.M. we'll set up a block ice content and then I'm going
to create a jumbotron.
Some of this is optional though we'll see an owner
and after that we'll just have some explanation that a new owner with the form below and a new owner.
There you go.
Now it's time to insert the form.
So still inside the show Latron I'm going to say form have an H him a form.
I don't need action.
Don't need class I just need to say methodis post and just on some Wes's you have to sometimes capitalize
it.
It should technically not be an issue but just keep that in mind.
We'll say form and then we'll say critter hit instead.
And we'll say a label for the name and the label for the puppy.
So form name label.
And then form that name and then form and it's pup underscore ID attribute the label for that and then
set form the pup underscore ID.
Let's make sure of open close princes or on name as well.
Whoops there we go.
And then we'll have the submit button.
We'll see form thought submit.
Let's see if everything worked Baxley running our site will say Python adoption site and it looks like
it's running springing over our browser and check to make sure it's working.
So I come over here and unfortunately we see just home add a pup list the pups and the pup something
that forgot to do is actually set a new link in our NAV bar to go to the ad owner page.
So let's go back and we need to adjust our based table in order to make that happen.
So when I come over here to base let each team know and it's just going to copy this and then add one
more.
Everything is going to be the same except instead of DTL pup we see what view we have for an owner.
So that was just the owner going to copy it and it's back to basics T.M. So people say an owner and
then that or this will say an owner.
All right let's save that.
Now that should be linked correctly.
Do Control-C and let's bring back our Web site here.
And now I see an owner.
So I see my list the pups Frankie and the owner signed to Sammy and the owner signed yet.
So remember I'm using the exact same database that I had before from the lectures where we showed you
how to build the basic adoption site.
So Frankie has an idea of two and Sammy has an idea or three because we deleted rufous back in those
videos.
So keep in mind you can always delete and start everything over again in case you're having issues with
matching IDs to owners.
So we'll come back to owner or the name of the owner will say is Eddie and then the idea of the puppy
if I try putting in one that's going to retrieve an error because we deleted rufous So it's put into
I'll say an owner and we say here's a list of all puppies all available puppies.
Looks like freaky.
An owner is Eddie and Sammy and now owners are assigned.
So now let's go ahead and add an owner to Sammy so I'll come in here.
Say an owner the name of the owner.
We'll just say Edward idea of puppy.
So Frankie should be too.
So we'll say idea of puppy or excuse me should be three.
So say three.
Say an owner an icy puppy named Sammy.
And owner is Edward So it looks like we're able to successfully connect owners to their puppies.
Keep in mind right now if I try to put in some owner so maybe I do add a bunch of these and I try to
put in the idea of a puppy that doesn't exist in the database such as one click at owner.
Nothing's going to happen here.
You're just going to see Eddie and Edward.
You're not actually going to get a connection because even though the owners in that database there
is no puppy that links up with puppy ID one.
So just like I said at owner we do a bunch of these here and then the puppy 10000 click at owner.
The database has no problem with that except there's no puppies for those particular IDs.
So you don't see it on the list of all available puppies.
OK.
That was the very basics of the solutions.
Feel free to share your own solutions in the Q&A forums.
We'll see you at the next lecture.